## Problem Statement

### What is your product, on a high level?

Our product is an online banking application, which will allow the customers of
a bank or other another financial institution to perform money-management
without physically visiting the bank.

It will allow the customers to open their accounts, manage them electronically,
to monitor them, to make transactions, pay their bills, transfer money, make
deposits, and so on.

### Whom is it for?

An online banking application is beneficial to everyone but is especially
useful for those people with a stringent work schedule. It will help them to
manage their accounts and keep track of their activities in a quick manner with
minimal costs without the need to to visit a physical bank during working hours
or make a phone call.

### What problem does it solve?

 - 24/7 availability, saving the customer from rushing the banks during working
   hours. With an online banking system, people can perform their tasks at a
   time that suits their work schedule.

 - Stringent schedules, where customers with strict working hours
   to perform their banking activities effectively and conveniently.

 - Centralized source of information, where instead of visiting different
   officials specialized in different tasks, the customer can use an online
   banking application flexible enough to do any task in a single click. Human
   bankers are not always availible, but the application always will be,
   meaning there is no need to rush to the bank to get things done.

 - Remain informed: With the online banking system, customers can easily
   receive up-to-date information regarding their upcoming deadlines or dues
   through notifications, emails, or text messages.

 - Easy bill payments, so that there is no need to rush to the bank. Everything
   can be done at home instead.

### What alternatives are available?

 - Services provided by 3rd party application, like Mint
 - A phone app
 - In person banking services
 - Phone calls
 - ATMs

### Why is this project compelling and worth developing?

 - It would reduce costs for banks by reducing the amount of human labor
   required.
 - An electronic banking system would enable banks to keep stringent records
 - A computerized ledger would reduce the number of mistakes when calculating
   interests, making transactions, and so on.
 - It whould increase customer satisfaction because they would have access
   to our banks from any place with WiFi.

### Describe the top-level objectives, differentiators, target customers, and scope of your product.

- Objective: To create a product that performs to our requirements and have it
  sustainable for multiple lifecycles.
- Differentiators: Our system wonâ€™t sell data to any third parties, have no
  hidden transaction fees, and will not participate in predatory lending
  practices
- Target customers: Our target customer is the average citizen, anyone that
  currently uses or will use a bank for their transaction needs.
- Scope: The scope of our project is building an online business ledger, making
  a database to store our information, developing a web app and making a UI for
  our customers.

### What are the competitors and what is novel in your approach?

Our competitors are Finacle, nCino, Oracle, etc. What we bring new to the table
is that our system will be entirely online. Additionally, our platform is
customer focused and will be fully transparent. We won't sell customer data or
charge hidden fees.

### Make it clear that the system can be built, making good use of the available resources and technology.

Our system is possible because it will be very simplistic and direct. Clients
will connect to our application software where they will be greeted by a
user-friendly interface, which will primarily be coded in HTML, with CSS used
to create a beautiful design for our clients. Finally, the frontend of our
application will be connected to a backend SQL database. The database will be
responsible for recording transactions such as withdrawals, deposits, bill
pays, and more.

### What is interesting about this project from a technical point of view?

The project will use a client-server architecture in order to be accessible to
clients from anywhere.

Emphasis will also be placed on graphical design, using our creativity to design
a nice interface for our clients.
