## Teamwork Basics

Summarize the following sections in the Teamwork Basics documents using your
own words and must provide examples using personal experience (at least two
group members) in this class or other classes or internships:

### Ground Rules: Norms 1 to norms 5

Setting some ground rules can help clearly lay out what to and what not to do
when working on assignments or communicating with the team.

1. **Work norms**: Who will do what and when is it due? Will anyone review it?

  - These rules are the basis for completing any group assignment and must be
    made clear because not making these clear can make some members think the
    deadline is a different date or two members could do the same part.

2. **Facilitators Norms**: Will you use facilitators?

  - Facilitators are people who will keep the team on track. They are the
    person who will chime in "Ok so what we are doing isâ€¦" clarifying the
    objective or "Guys if we finish this part now, we can go home early"
    motivating the group to stay on track.

    I had a groupmate in my system-level class that was like that. Having a
    person clarifying what we did the last meet and what we needed to do during
    this one was beyond helpful.

    We were working on a library checkout program and sometimes during the
    meetings the group, myself included, would over focus on one small part of
    the assignment, like the book properties. She would always get the team to
    focus on the requirements, and asked people in the group who weren't
    enthusiastic about the project for their input to keep them engaged.

3. **Communication Norms**: How will the group communicate? Email, GroupMe,
   etc.?

  - Having everyone in a group chat can be helpful to facilitate
    communication. It can also help pass along the assignments to the leader.

4. **Meeting Norms**: When is a good time to meet and where? What if someone
   misses a lot of meetings?

  - These can help provide structure because in previous groups when one person
    is not going to meetings you can tell them that the times are clearly laid
    out. Without it they probably felt no consequence because there was no
    clarification in the beginning that not going would be met with telling the
    professor or asking for a grade reduction.

5. **Consideration Norms**: Can people eat at meetings or smoke? Is everyone
   comfortable with the other team members?

  - It's important to make sure everyone is comfortable, and it can help those
    teammates who are shy and may only provide input if the environment is not
    intimidating.

### Goals

It's important to make sure that the whole team is on the same page with
regards to the goal. If one teammate is only concerned with passing and getting
a C or above and other members are working for an A, there will be conflict
which should have been addressed from the beginning.

### Hints for Handling Difficult Behavior

If a teammate is too talkative, it can be due to their eagerness or they want
to show off their knowledge to the group. If they can't take a hint that other
people would like to provide input, then you can use humor to stop them from
dominating the situation, or alternatively you can talk to them privately about
letting others provide an equal amount of input.

If they are too quiet then you can make an effort to ask them questions about
themselves and tell them you appreciate any input they give. It is likely that
they have good ideas for the project because they have been listening the whole
time.

If the person is very aggressive and critical then you should evaluate their
critiques and then ask them privately to tone down their actions, as they are
having a negative effect on the rest of the team.

If a teammate complains a lot, evaluate the complaints and make changes to
resolve those complaints. If it is not possible to do so, then talk to them to
try to resolve their problem in another way.

### Hints for Handling Group Problems

The whole group may come across problems that affect all members.

If the team is floundering and not really getting anything accomplished getting
a list of tasks can be very helpful. In my experience, someone taking up the
leadership role can help provide the group with needed direction.

When the team is constantly getting distracted and going on tangents you can
ask for an explaination of a certain part of the project in order to discretely
get the group on topic.

If the group makes decisions too quickly then you can ask things like "Are we
all in agreement about this?" to slow things down, and provide more time to
find an optimal solution.

If the group fails to come to a consensus, then multivoting may be a way to
finally make a decision. Multivoting is listing the choices and having members
rate them from best to worst and find similarities in the best ideas and try to
combine them.

If team members are fighting between themselves, then take a break and use the
techniques from [Hints for Handling Difficult behavior][].

If someone is being ignored or ridiculed then they will not be able to provide
the team with input. Therefore, all members must make a extra effort to be
inclusive and make everyone feel accepted.

When a group member doesn't want to do their share of work, then it's necessary
to talk to them and list the consequences of their actions. Hinting at this is
insufficient, it's important for things to be fully explained to ensure they
fully understand. Not being direct could get them to not like you and resist
doing the work even more.
